Suppose there exists a linear map on $V$ whose null space and range are both finite-dimensional. Prove that $V$ is finite-dimensional.

---

Notice [[3.22]] doesn't apply here since it assumes $V$ is finite-dimensional. 2.34 Also can't be used till we know $V$ is finite.


Let $m = \dim \text{range }T + \dim \text{null }T$, Let $v_1,\dots,v_r$ be a basis for $\text{range }T$ and $v_{r+1},\dots,v_{m}$ be a basis for $\text{null }T$. I'm going to show $v_1,\dots,v_m$ is a basis for $V$ by showing each $v \in V$ can be written as $v_p + v_n$ where $v_p \in \text{range }T$ and $v_n \in \text{null }T$.

Let $R = \text{range }T$, A fact we'll use heavily is that $T|_R$ ($T$ restricted to $R$) is invertible since $\text{null }T|_R = \{0\}$.

Let's add $v$ to our list and show it's dependent. Since $Tv$ is in the range of $T$
$$
Tv = a_1v_1 + \dots + a_rv_r
$$

Since each $v_j \in R$ we can set $w_j = T|_R^{-1}v_j$ so that
$$
\begin{aligned}
Tv_{m+1}
&= a_1(Tw_1) + \dots + a_r(Tw_r) \\
&= T(a_1w_1 + \dots + a_rw_r)
\end{aligned}
$$
Which implies
$$
T(v - (a_1w_1 + \dots + a_rw_r)) = 0
$$
Thus the difference is in the nullspace. Let $v_n$ denote this difference and $v_p = v - v_n$. Clearly $v_n \in \text{null }T$, and $v_p \in \text{range }T$ since $v_p = a_1w_1+\dots+a_rw_r$ and each $w_j \in \text{range }T$. Thus we can write
$$
v = v_p + v_n = c_1v_1 + \dots + c_nv_m
$$
Implying $v_1,\dots,v_m$ spans $V$, and since they're independent they form a basis for $V$ finally implying $\dim V = m$.

---

Corralary 1: $\text{range }T \oplus \text{null }T = V$
Corralary 2: We can replace the "$V$ is finite" assumption with "null $T$ and range $T$ are finite" in [[3.22]].

This exercise was hard for me (took more then an hour). When an exercise is hard I let myself relax my mental rigor requirement and work backwords from "why is this intuitively true" to a proof, filling in holes as I go.

I don't think I would have solved this without knowing every vector can be represented as a sum of range and null components (which I learned in 1806). I worked backwards from there

TODO: Write separate exposition about "what a linear map looks like" and related theorems that justify the picture
